# Ground Texture SLAM

A SLAM system that only uses the ground beneath the robot. For more details about how it works, see
the paper "Monocular Simultaneous Localization and Mapping using Ground Textures"

## Distribution Statement ##
Distribution Statement A - Approved for public release; distribution is unlimited, as submitted
under NAVAIR Public Release Authorization 2022-0586.

## Paper ##
The preprint of this paper can be found at: https://arxiv.org/abs/2303.05946

The published version is at: _TBD_

## Citing this Work ##
This code is part of a paper to appear in IEEE's International Conference on Robotics and
Automation (ICRA) in London, UK in May 2023. Please use the following citation information if you
use this work:

```
@inproceedings{Monocular_SLAM_Hart,
address = {London, UK},
author={Kyle M. Hart and Brendan Englot and Ryan P. O'Shea and John D. Kelly and David Martinez},
title = {Monocular Simultaneous Localization and Mapping using Ground Textures},
booktitle = {Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation},
month = {May},
year = {2023}
}
```

## Installation ##
This system is targeted towards the following OS distributions and dependency versions. Others are
likely possible as well, but these are the ones that have automated unit tests.

__Ubuntu__
  - 20.04
  - 22.04

__GTSAM__
  - 4.0.3
  - 4.1.0
  - 4.1.1

__OpenCV__
  - 4.X where X is not 4 (4.4.X is likely to work, but because of an issue with Eigen and some
  Tensor library, my automated tests can't test it)

There are two ways to use this library: from a Docker image or build from source manually.

### Docker ###
There is a Docker file that you can build that will provide everything. From the project workspace,
just run:
```bash
docker build --build-arg GTSAM_VERSION=4.1.1 --build-arg OPENCV_VERSION=4.2.0 --build-arg OS=ubuntu:20.04 --target deploy --tag ground_texture_slam:deploy -f ./.devcontainer/Dockerfile .
```
Again, you can customize the arguments if you wish, but this is untested. This library installs the
C++ and Python libraries in the relevant directories so they are available system wide.

### From Source ###
If you want to build this library manually, make sure GTSAM and OpenCV are both installed. They can
be installed from source or via `apt-get`. Then, from the root of this project, run:
```bash
cmake -S . -B build
cmake --build build
cmake --build build --target install
```
The last command installs both libraries so they are available system wide. You will need sudo
rights for this last command.

## How to Use ##
For an example use, see the files `src/simple_example.cpp` and `src/simple_example.py`. These
illustrate basic usage. Note that the estimated poses will not necessarily be correct, as there are
a lot of random values generated. They are only to illustrate the API.

Real data can be obtained from https://github.com/JanFabianSchmid/HD_Ground. This is the same data
used in the paper. Once loaded from file, it can be passed in to the SLAM system and results
compared to ground truth. Note that the poses in the original data source are in image coordinates
and must be converted to real world coordinates.

## Full Documentation ##
Full documentation can be generated by running this command from the project root:
```bash
doxygen Doxyfile
```
Then, open `docs/html/index.html` in the browser to view the documentation.